README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img src="logo.png">
</p>

<p align="center">
    <a href="https://pypi.org/project/python-gedcom/" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/python-gedcom.svg" alt="PyPI"></a>
    <a href="https://github.com/nickreynke/python-gedcom/releases" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/release/nickreynke/python-gedcom.svg" alt="GitHub release"></a>
    <a href="https://travis-ci.org/nickreynke/python-gedcom" target="_blank"><img src="https://travis-ci.org/nickreynke/python-gedcom.svg?branch=master" alt="Build Status"></a>
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/GEDCOM%20format%20version-5.5-yellowgreen.svg" alt="GEDCOM format version 5.5">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Python%20versions-3.5%20to%203.8-yellowgreen.svg" alt="Python versions 3.5 to 3.8">
</p>

<p align="center">
    A Python module for parsing, analyzing, and manipulating GEDCOM files.
</p>

<p align="center">
    GEDCOM files contain ancestry data. The parser is currently supporting the GEDCOM 5.5 format which is detailed
    <a href="https://chronoplexsoftware.com/gedcomvalidator/gedcom/gedcom-5.5.pdf" target="_blank">here</a>.
</p>

## Documentation

Documentation can be found here: https://nickreynke.github.io/python-gedcom/gedcom/index.html

## Changelog

For the latest changes please have a look at the [`CHANGELOG.md`](CHANGELOG.md) file.

The current development process can be tracked in the [develop branch](https://github.com/nickreynke/python-gedcom/tree/develop).

## Common problems

* When you name your script `gedcom.py`, and import the `gedcom` module from this package, running your script won't
  work because Python will try to resolve imports like `gedcom.element.individual` from within your `gedcom.py` but
  not from within the module from this package. Rename your file in this case. ([#26](https://github.com/nickreynke/python-gedcom/issues/26))

## Local development

Local development is done using [pyenv](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv) and
[pipenv](https://github.com/pypa/pipenv) using Python 3.5.

### Running tests

1. Run `pipenv install -d` to install normal and dev dependencies
1. Run tests with [tox](https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html) (`pipenv run tox` in your console)
    * For Python 3.5 run `pipenv run tox -e py35` (you need to have Python 3.5 installed)
    * For Python 3.6 run `pipenv run tox -e py36` (you need to have Python 3.6 installed)
    * For Python 3.7 run `pipenv run tox -e py37` (you need to have Python 3.7 installed)
    * For Python 3.8 run `pipenv run tox -e py38` (you need to have Python 3.8 installed)

### Generating docs

1. Run `pipenv install -d` to install normal and dev dependencies
1. Run `pipenv run pdoc3 --html -o docs/ gedcom --force` to generate docs into the `docs/` directory

> To develop docs run `pipenv run pdoc3 --http localhost:8000 gedcom`
> to watch files and instantly see changes in your browser under http://localhost:8000.

### Uploading a new package to PyPI

1. Run `pipenv install -d` to install normal and dev dependencies
1. Run `pipenv run python3 setup.py sdist bdist_wheel` to generate distribution archives
1. Run `pipenv run twine upload --repository-url https://test.pypi.org/legacy/ dist/*` to upload the archives to the Test Python Package Index repository

> When the package is ready to be published to the real Python Package Index
the `repository-url` is `https://upload.pypi.org/legacy/`.
>
> `pipenv run twine upload --repository-url https://upload.pypi.org/legacy/ dist/*`

## Contribution

1. Clone the repo
1. Make your changes
1. (Write appropriate tests within `tests/`)
1. Commit using [conventional commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/)
1. [Open a pull request](https://github.com/madprime/python-gedcom/compare)
1. When checks for the PR fail consider making changes so that the checks pass

### Git: Conventional Commits

Git committing is done using [conventional commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) with NPM.

Consider installing node packages with [NVM](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) and start committing with `npm run commit`.
Git hooks installed via [Husky](https://github.com/typicode/husky) will do the rest.

How to install:

1. Use Node version `12.16.1` (or use [NVM](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) and run `nvm use`)
1. Run `npm install` and then `npm run commit` to commit your changes

## Version bumping (releasing)

All of the following will generate a `<major>.<minor>.<patch>-dev<build>` version:

```bash
# Major
pipenv run bumpversion major --message 'chore: release {new_version}'

# Minor
pipenv run bumpversion minor --message 'chore: release {new_version}'

# Patch
pipenv run bumpversion patch --message 'chore: release {new_version}'
```

To bump up the `<build>` number, run the following:

```bash
pipenv run bumpversion build --message 'chore: release {new_version}'
```

To do a final release of the current `<major>.<minor>.<patch>` part, run the following:

```bash
pipenv run bumpversion release --message 'chore: release {new_version}'
```

## History

This module was originally based on a GEDCOM parser written by 
Daniel Zappala at Brigham Young University (Copyright (C) 2005) which
was licensed under the GPL v2 and then continued by
[Mad Price Ball](https://github.com/madprime) in 2012.

The project was taken over by [Nicklas Reincke](https://github.com/nickreynke) in 2018.
Together with [Damon Brodie](https://github.com/nomadyow) a lot of changes were made and the parser was optimized.

Ansel support, additional tags, and extensive record and substructure level parsing support were added by
[Christopher Horn](https://github.com/cdhorn) in 2020.

## License

Licensed under the [GNU General Public License v2](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html)

**Python GEDCOM Parser**
<br>Copyright (C) 2020 Christopher Horn (cdhorn at embarqmail dot com)
<br>Copyright (C) 2018 Damon Brodie (damon.brodie at gmail.com)
<br>Copyright (C) 2018 Nicklas Reincke (contact at reynke.com)
<br>Copyright (C) 2016 Andreas Oberritter
<br>Copyright (C) 2012 Madeleine Price Ball
<br>Copyright (C) 2005 Daniel Zappala (zappala at cs.byu.edu)
<br>Copyright (C) 2005 Brigham Young University

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.

Commit message:

feat(ci): optimized automatic docs generation

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img src="logo.png">
</p>

<p align="center">
    <a href="https://pypi.org/project/python-gedcom/" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/python-gedcom.svg" alt="PyPI"></a>
    <a href="https://github.com/nickreynke/python-gedcom/releases" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/release/nickreynke/python-gedcom.svg" alt="GitHub release"></a>
    <a href="https://travis-ci.org/nickreynke/python-gedcom" target="_blank"><img src="https://travis-ci.org/nickreynke/python-gedcom.svg?branch=master" alt="Build Status"></a>
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/GEDCOM%20format%20version-5.5-yellowgreen.svg" alt="GEDCOM format version 5.5">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Python%20versions-3.5%20to%203.8-yellowgreen.svg" alt="Python versions 3.5 to 3.8">
</p>

<p align="center">
    A Python module for parsing, analyzing, and manipulating GEDCOM files.
</p>

<p align="center">
    GEDCOM files contain ancestry data. The parser is currently supporting the GEDCOM 5.5 format which is detailed
    <a href="https://chronoplexsoftware.com/gedcomvalidator/gedcom/gedcom-5.5.pdf" target="_blank">here</a>.
</p>

## Documentation

Documentation can be found here: https://nickreynke.github.io/python-gedcom/gedcom/index.html

## Changelog

For the latest changes please have a look at the [`CHANGELOG.md`](CHANGELOG.md) file.

The current development process can be tracked in the [develop branch](https://github.com/nickreynke/python-gedcom/tree/develop).

## Common problems

* When you name your script `gedcom.py`, and import the `gedcom` module from this package, running your script won't
  work because Python will try to resolve imports like `gedcom.element.individual` from within your `gedcom.py` but
  not from within the module from this package. Rename your file in this case. ([#26](https://github.com/nickreynke/python-gedcom/issues/26))

## Local development

Local development is done using [pyenv](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv) and
[pipenv](https://github.com/pypa/pipenv) using Python 3.5.

### Running tests

1. Run `pipenv install -d` to install normal and dev dependencies
1. Run tests with [tox](https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html) (`pipenv run tox` in your console)
    * For Python 3.5 run `pipenv run tox -e py35` (you need to have Python 3.5 installed)
    * For Python 3.6 run `pipenv run tox -e py36` (you need to have Python 3.6 installed)
    * For Python 3.7 run `pipenv run tox -e py37` (you need to have Python 3.7 installed)
    * For Python 3.8 run `pipenv run tox -e py38` (you need to have Python 3.8 installed)

### Generating docs

1. Run `pipenv install -d` to install normal and dev dependencies
1. Run `rm -rf docs/` to be able to completely overwrite existing docs
1. Run `pipenv run pdoc3 --html -o docs/ gedcom --force` to generate docs into the `docs/` directory

> To develop docs run `pipenv run pdoc3 --http localhost:8000 gedcom`
> to watch files and instantly see changes in your browser under http://localhost:8000.

### Uploading a new package to PyPI

1. Run `pipenv install -d` to install normal and dev dependencies
1. Run `pipenv run python3 setup.py sdist bdist_wheel` to generate distribution archives
1. Run `pipenv run twine upload --repository-url https://test.pypi.org/legacy/ dist/*` to upload the archives to the Test Python Package Index repository

> When the package is ready to be published to the real Python Package Index
the `repository-url` is `https://upload.pypi.org/legacy/`.
>
> `pipenv run twine upload --repository-url https://upload.pypi.org/legacy/ dist/*`

## Contribution

1. Clone the repo
1. Make your changes
1. (Write appropriate tests within `tests/`)
1. Commit using [conventional commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/)
1. [Open a pull request](https://github.com/madprime/python-gedcom/compare)
1. When checks for the PR fail consider making changes so that the checks pass

### Git: Conventional Commits

Git committing is done using [conventional commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) with NPM.

Consider installing node packages with [NVM](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) and start committing with `npm run commit`.
Git hooks installed via [Husky](https://github.com/typicode/husky) will do the rest.

How to install:

1. Use Node version `12.16.1` (or use [NVM](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) and run `nvm use`)
1. Run `npm install` and then `npm run commit` to commit your changes

## Version bumping (releasing)

All of the following will generate a `<major>.<minor>.<patch>-dev<build>` version:

```bash
# Major
pipenv run bumpversion major --message 'chore: release {new_version}'

# Minor
pipenv run bumpversion minor --message 'chore: release {new_version}'

# Patch
pipenv run bumpversion patch --message 'chore: release {new_version}'
```

To bump up the `<build>` number, run the following:

```bash
pipenv run bumpversion build --message 'chore: release {new_version}'
```

To do a final release of the current `<major>.<minor>.<patch>` part, run the following:

```bash
pipenv run bumpversion release --message 'chore: release {new_version}'
```

## History

This module was originally based on a GEDCOM parser written by 
Daniel Zappala at Brigham Young University (Copyright (C) 2005) which
was licensed under the GPL v2 and then continued by
[Mad Price Ball](https://github.com/madprime) in 2012.

The project was taken over by [Nicklas Reincke](https://github.com/nickreynke) in 2018.
Together with [Damon Brodie](https://github.com/nomadyow) a lot of changes were made and the parser was optimized.

Ansel support, additional tags, and extensive record and substructure level parsing support were added by
[Christopher Horn](https://github.com/cdhorn) in 2020.

## License

Licensed under the [GNU General Public License v2](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html)

**Python GEDCOM Parser**
<br>Copyright (C) 2020 Christopher Horn (cdhorn at embarqmail dot com)
<br>Copyright (C) 2018 Damon Brodie (damon.brodie at gmail.com)
<br>Copyright (C) 2018 Nicklas Reincke (contact at reynke.com)
<br>Copyright (C) 2016 Andreas Oberritter
<br>Copyright (C) 2012 Madeleine Price Ball
<br>Copyright (C) 2005 Daniel Zappala (zappala at cs.byu.edu)
<br>Copyright (C) 2005 Brigham Young University

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
